---
title: Lecture 15 - Design That Matters and Where That Responsibility Lies
layout: doc
---

# Design That Matters and Where That Responsibility Lies

Lyle's lecture regarding design that matters was extremely thought-provoking, and I thought it brought up incredibly relevant points that we are seeing affect society in real time. In this blog post, I wanted to share some of the thoughts I had during lecture and our peer discussions. When we discussed the design of a 6-pack ring and whether the harmful environmental impacts could have been avoided during the design process, I tried to imagine myself in the context of the design process. Overall, in this situation, I think it could not have been avoided, especially considering the 6-pack ring was invented around the 1960s, before the environmentalism movement gained traction. Because it was so novel, the designers likely did not even consider its environmental impact as a possible field of concern. However, I do think that if the 6-pack ring was designed in today's cultural and political climate, it would be more likely that its designers could have predicted a harmful impact. Thus, this raises the issue: How can we even predict the harmful impacts when we aren't even made conscious of them until the negative consequences actually begin to manifest? How can we begin to implement measures to prevent these harmful consequences?

The first aspect of this is that we might not even know that these consequences exist. We can always try to pivot our design process to be impact-conscious, but there are a lot of situations where the possible consequences might not even be in the realm of what people think are possible. Taking the 6-ring pack as an example, most people at the time likely did not have their environmental impact at the forefront of their mind due to the cultural climate of the 1960s. The environmentalism movement really began to gain traction later on in the decade, closer to the 1970s. How can we try to educate ourselves in a way that allows for us to be more aware of the types of impacts that are even possible as a result of a product? In my opinion, the best that we can try to do is do thorough research, but also introduce diverse perspectives into the design process to help provide unique takes.

The second aspect of this is that even if we can think about certain harmful consequences, it is very possible that we don't take them seriously if they are not directly or currently impacting us. A lot of issues almost have an "out of sight, out of mind" nature, where people don't think they are that harmful because the issues do not fully manifest in a way that directly impacts people. This can be seen in something like global warming--all the data and evidence is there, and scientists have been saying for decades that this is an important issue that we need to be taking more action to try and prevent. However, it is extremely difficult for people to realize the drastic impacts of global warming because the change is so slow, and it does not actually appear to directly affect people in their everyday life. In fact, there are still people who refuse to believe that it even exists. Because there are a lot of issues where the direct impact is not clear, it may seem like a waste of time or resources to invest effort into solutions or preventative measures. How can we encourage people to take action when it might be very difficult to measure or see the impact of our solutions?

The third aspect of this issue is that even when we do recognize these problems, and we do want to take action to implement solutions, a lot of the time it is not possible for most business owners. Most people do not have the resources to invest into designing products with less environmental or social impact, either because they do not have the funding to even begin to implement the solutions, or because it might cut into their profits at all. I do think that this responsibility falls onto larger corporations, but in my opinion, typically the larger the corporation, the more they can get away with being less ethical because it becomes less "personal" to make these decisions--also, larger corporations are more concerned with profit (hence, why they become large corporations in the first place). How can we help provide the resources or market for smaller businesses that want to create products that are less harmful, or how can we encourage larger corporations to take the right steps?
