---
title: Assignment 6 - User Testing and Analysis
layout: doc
---

# User Testing and Analysis for Omnom

## Links

You can find the code repository [HERE](https://github.com/irisxyang/frontend-starter).

You can find the deployed service [HERE](https://frontend-starter-zeta.vercel.app/).

Hope you enjoy the site!

## Task List

| Task Title                                   | Task Steps                                                                                                                                                                                    | Rationale                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      |
| -------------------------------------------- | --------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------- | ---------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------- |
| Basic Registration                           | 1. Register for the site, 2. Log in, 3. Log out                                                                                                                                               | Explore basic functionality of the app. This is important because I want to make sure users can actually use the app. Can they actually log in and interact with the app in a personalized manner? I hope to discover any kinks in the initial registration process, which might discourage users from even beginning to use the site in the first place.                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      |
| Restaurant Exploration                       | 1. From the Home Page, 2. search for a restaurant (Chipotle), 3. and look at the reviews                                                                                                      | As a food review site, being able to easily explore new restaurants is an important way for users to interact with the site. Can the user use the site to explore different restaurants, as originally intended? How easy is it for users to find a specific restaurant? Does the search work like they expect it to? Do the reviews make it clear what is good or bad about the restaurant? What else would they like to know about the restaurant? I hope to identify shortcomings in the restaurant search process that would make it harder for users to find or discover restaurants, which would undermine the purpose of the app. I also want to make sure that it is easily navigable. |
| Reviewing                                    | 1. Log in, 2. Draft a new review for a restaurant (Chipotle), 3. Post the review                                                                                                              | This is one of the core functionalities of the site, so it is important to ensure that users can smoothly add new reviews when they want to. Can the user post their opinions about a restaurant that they have been to? Are there more aspects of the restaurant that they would like to share apart from the fields currently allowed? Does the "Add Review" form work as expected? Is the interface easily understandable and easy to use? I hope to figure out if there are aspects of the reviewing process that do not make intuitive sense to users, or if there are functionalities that they would expect that are not there.                                                         |
| I Didn't Like That Post... (Review Deletion) | 1. From the Home Page, go to your personal profile, 3. Find your review and edit your scoring and rating, 4. Go back to your profile page and look at the edited review, 5. Delete the review | This task is to ensure that the site is user error tolerant--i.e., I want to make sure that users can revise their reviews or opinions if needed. If needed, will the user be able to go back and edit any mistakes they made in their review, or revise their opinion? Is the interface clear and logical? Does the interface account for possible user errors, and make it so that it is error-tolerant? Same as Task 3, I want to make sure it is easily navigable, forms work intuitively, and there is not functionality that I missed.                                                                                                                                                   |
| New Priorities (User Weighting Editing)      | 1. Search for a restaurant (Chipotle), 2. Edit user weightings to prioritize different characteristics, 3. Return to the same restaurant                                                      | Weightings are another core functionality of Omnom that makes the site unique, so I want to ensure that users are able to use the concept as expected. Especially because weightings are a novel concept, I want to ensure that users fully grasp their function and that everything is easily findable and usable. Is the user weightings system easily understandable? Does the user understand the purpose of the weightings, and how they affect the weighted average scores for each review or restaurant? Is it clear what the purpose is? Does the weighting system behave how the user expects it to?                                                                                  |

## User Studies

[User Study Template](assignment6/userstudytemplate)

### User Study 1: Anne

[User Study 1 Unedited Notes](assignment6/userstudy1)

#### Report

Anne generally had a rather straightforward time navigating the site. Upon loading the site, she mentioned, "I like the color scheme and theming." She noted that generally the labels for different pages were obvious and where they expected to be. Furthermore, while the concept of user weightings was confusing at first, after reading the description provided on the registration page, she was able to understand the general idea and purpose (indicated by an "Ohh... I see."). This is something I expected--hence why I included a description in the first place. While it would be ideal to have no confusion whatsoever about the different elements of the site, I think with a more novel concept such as the user weightings there will inevitably be some sort of gap in understanding, so I think that this is not necessarily a usability concern—especially because she quickly understood the intention after reading the explanation. However, she did run into a couple of other more major hiccups throughout the user test. The first major hiccup was during Task 1 when she attempted to log out after logging in. At first, she navigated to the user profile to find the log out button. However, after discovering that it was not there, she navigated to the “Edit Profile” button, which ultimately took her to the correct Settings page. My intention was for the user to directly navigate to Settings using the NavBar, which has been my personal experience when using certain sites, but this experience showed that it might not be intuitive to users that the log out functionality would be nested within the Settings page. Anne mentioned that she initially would have expected to see a “Log Out” button on the NavBar after logging in, rather than being on the Setting page. She then ran into a little bit of a block during Task 2, when she was trying to search for a restaurant, because she did not realize that the search was case-sensitive. This could pose major issues especially for restaurants with more complex names, since it would be extremely difficult for users to match the string exactly. Anne also encountered some confusion when using some of the button-like elements on the site. While she liked the design and aesthetic of the buttons, particularly the hover details, she thought that some of the other clickable elements could have made it more clear that they were able to be clicked. In particular, she had a little bit of an issue during Task 2 when she was trying to navigate to the Restaurant page. I noticed that she had originally tried to click on the entire restaurant component, and showed confusion when it did not navigate to the restaurant page. During our debrief, she said that she expected the entire component to be clickable, but on the site only the name of the restaurant was clickable. She said there was no font decoration or box that would have indicated to her that she should click on only the name. Finally, during the debrief, Anne mentioned that while she did generally feel like the site was not _confusing_, i.e. she knew how to navigate to different pages, there were times where she wished she could have navigated to a page in more efficient ways. For example, apart from the "log out" button previously mentioned, she would have liked to have access to the Restaurant Search page via the NavBar, or maybe have an "Add Review" button always in the NavBar.

#### Opportunities for Improvement

- **Weightings Clarification**: (Conceptual/Moderate) The problem currently is that the concept of the weightings and weighted averages is not particularly clear at first (without reading the explanation). This is likely occurring because it is a novel concept that has not really been put into practice into other reviewing apps. The language for averaging is not entirely intuitive--i.e., the full intention and purpose cannot be completely extrapolated from the name of the concept. This is something that I expected, which is why on the registration page, I included an explanation for the weightings before the section where the user selects their weightings. I would actually lean towards categorizing this problem as a major problem, since the weightings are a central aspect of Omnom. However, like I mentioned in the report, it makes sense that with a novel concept there is unavoidably going to be some confusion. I ended up categorizing this problem as moderate, since it was apparent that Anne understood the premise of the concept after reading the explanation. Thus, one way I can think of improving the site design would be to include a brief explanation on the Home page, so that all users and potential users have a better understanding of the weightings. Or, I could add a FAQ or About section to the site as well, accessible through the NavBar.

- **Navigation**: (Linguistic/Minor) Another opportunity for improvement in Omnom is the navigation. As of right now, there are a very limited number of links on the NavBar, which do not actually encompass the full functionality of the site. Of course, all pages are able to be navigated to via some path on the site, but it is not ideal nor efficient for the user. As evidenced from Anne's user study, she mentioned that she wishes there were more "shortcuts" to get to the pages that she wanted to. For Anne, it was not intuitive to have the Restaurant Search page only navigable via the Home page, just as it was not intuitive for her to have to go to the Settings page to log out. I believe that this is a minor issue, because generally Anne had no trouble navigating to different pages or functionalities, it was just annoying in the long run if she was taking different routes. A way that this would be addressed is to add more (necessary) routes to the NavBar--in particular: Search, Add Review, and Log Out.

- **Clickability and Buttons**: (Linguistic/Minor) Another minor issue that was suggested in Anne's user study was the intuitiveness of the clickability of certain buttons. This issue occurs specifically on the restaurant component, where Anne's first instinct was to simply click on the entire component instead of the restaurant title. This particular instance broadens into a clickability problem--the user sometimes does not know which parts of components are able to be clicked or not. This is likely due to the lack of text decoration on all text, as well as some clickable components not being in the typical "button" form. A way that this could be resolved could be adding text decoration such as an underline (which is widely accepted as an indication of a link across most website users) to text such as the restaurant name or username to indicate that it can be clicked on. Another way to help mitigate confusion could be to make all components or elements that serve or represent one function into routes for that function. Taking the restaurant component as an example: Since the restaurant component in the Search page only serves the function of representing that one restaurant, and the only link in that component is for the restaurant, instead of having the link only be on the restaurant name, it would make more sense to users to have that entire component link to the restaurant page.

### User Study 2: John

[User Study 2 Unedited Notes](assignment6/userstudy2)

#### Report

John liked the design of the site and, like Anne, found the site to be generally well-functioning and intuitive. The first thing John tried to do while registering for the site was create a password that was one character long. After submitting the registration, he commented, "Wow, I can't believe that worked." During the debrief, he brought up concerns about password security, and how it could be nice to implement more security measures on password choices, such as making them above a certain length or need a special character. John had a lot of opinions regarding his experience during Task 2 specifically (Restaurant Exploration). He had no trouble navigating to the Search page, but he found that the weighting system appeared unintuitive, despite clarifying that he did understand the premise of the weighted averages. Due to the scale, he explained that the overall restaurant or review scores appear a lot lower (worse) than they actually are. This makes sense from a user perspective, as most review apps are measured on a 5-star scale, so a score of 1 would be extremely poor in that context. However, in Omnom, since 0 is meant to be considered "average", a score of 1 is actually slightly above average--i.e., a good score. John mentioned that he would have liked to see a visual representation of the scale, which would have helped him adjust his initial intuitive reaction to a score accordingly. Like Anne, he also found it annoying that the Restaurant Search was case-sensitive, and mentioned that he would have also liked to see autocomplete suggestions pop up as he was typing in the search. I think especially on a laptop, it makes sense to have the search be non-case-sensitive, because users do not typically capitalize when typing in a search on a real keyboard. Finally, as he scrolled through all restaurants on the search page, he remarked, "It's strange that they're not in any particular order." I think John probably expected to see the restaurants in alphabetical or scored order. However, the restaurants appeared in a random order on the Search page.John also found it off-putting that when he tried to edit a review, the scores on the edit page did not reflect his original review scoring--instead, they were all automatically reset to zero. While he would have wanted to adjust his scores based on his previously inputted scores, he could not do so because he had forgotten what the original scores were. This was something that had not occurred to me when creating the edit review page. Finally, during the debrief, John mentioned that while the site in general was solid and overall pretty clear, he would have liked to see more functionality. In particular, he had a lot of comments on the search. Apart from the case-sensitivity, John mentioned that he would have liked to have been able to see live autocomplete results as he was typing in his query to the search bar. Furthermore, he would have liked to see more filtering or sorting capabilities. Specifically, filtering or sorting restaurants by their rating, or being able to filter reviews by their ratings. Finally, John mentioned that the addition of images to reviews would have been nice, although he isn't sure how much he would use the functionality considering he would probably be using the site on his laptop, where it would be inconvenient to upload images.

#### Opportunities for Improvement

- **Score Display**: (Linguistic/Major) A problem with the current display of review scoring is that it does not intuitively tell the user how "good" or "bad" a restaurant is, because the user is not accustomed to this scaling system. Most users will be familiar with a 5-point or even 10-point scoring scale, but the novelty of the Omnom scaling system is what makes it unintuitive for users. It is very likely that if a user sees a restaurant with a score of 1, they automatically register that as a "low" score based on their previous understanding of other weighting scales. However, because the Omnom weighting scale has 0 as an average and ranges from -5 to 5, 1 is actually considered an above average score. A way that this could be addressed in the future is to create some sort of visualization for the scoring scale, such as displaying the score on a bar. It could also be helpful to label different parts of the bar (for example: 0 = Average) to further prevent user confusion and convey the right sense of scale for the score.

- **Search**: (Linguistic/Major) A problem that was revealed during both user studies was the limitations of the current search functionality. While the search currently "works", it is not the most robust nor user error resistant, which makes it hard to use reliably. Currently, the main issue is that it requires the user to input the exact string of the restaurant name in order for the search to correctly operate, which means that it is case-sensitive and not tolerant to spelling errors, or spacing errors. This could pose a huge issue, especially if a restaurant name is hard to spell, or complex (ex: has multiple words or dashes). One way of addressing this is to create a more robust search by doing something like storing the restaurant name without capital letters or spacing, and converting every search input into the same formatting before performing the actual search. An extension of this problem is to create a search with more possible functionality in general, which would make the user experience more efficient and enjoyable. This could include filtering capabilities (such as being able to filter restaurants by their rating), or sorting capabilities (sort alphabetically, or from highest to lowest score).

- **Password Security**: (Conceptual/Major) Another problem that John brought up during the user study was the ability for users to set their password to any string. This posed a security issue, because it allowed users to create extremely short or easily guessable passwords (like 'password'). This means that users accounts and information could be left extremely unprotected. A way that this could be addressed is by setting restrictions on the type of strings that can be set as a password, such as requiring at least 6 characters or needing a special character or capital letter. A better, even safer way of addressing this issue is simply by using a third-party authentication such as Google OAuth, which would provide far more security to users.

- **Extended Functionality**: (Conceptual/Minor) This is not an "issue", but very much an opportunity for improvement for Omnom. Omnom's functionalities are extremely limited at the moment (given the short development deadline). During the debrief, John brought up a lot of ways in which Omnom's capabilities could be extended to improve the user experience or encourage user retention. Because these are more in line with "future steps" rather than any real problem with the Omnom site, this is considered a minor issue. Some extended functionalities that could be added to Omnom include: being able to filter reviews by their ratings, being able to search your own reviews by the restaurant, being able to add and view pictures for reviews, being able to favorite restaurants, etc.
